# WebApp-MBTA
 This is the base repo for MBTA project. Please read [instructions](instructions.md). 

**Project Overview:**

The project is a front and back end project that works directly with the MBTA and MAPQUEST APIs. The project is run using Flask. The project prompts the user for a Boston Based Address and will return the closest MBTA Station based on the provided address. The form that takes the input from the user has a few validations: 1. If the textbox is empty, it gives an alert (javascript) and asks them to fill out all required fields; 2. If the street is not in the right city, the page goes back to the initial form and asks for the input again; 3. Also used the parse library to encode the url, because without that, if users entered any spaces in between the texts, the MBTA helper will not run. 
	
What went well in the project was learning how to find and use a url. Specifically the url that was needed to find the latitude and longitude of the given address. Then interpreting the url to understand what was needed to be entered into the url to find a given address’s latitude and longitude. This helped with learning how to find and use urls that are generated to integrate with the APIs. This will be helpful for us in the future because it will help us efficiently get the correct output that we need from the APIs that we use. 

We split the project up to front end development and back end development. We created a GitHub project that we were both developers on. This made working together  very easy because when one person pushed new code, the other could see it instantaneously.  Roger worked on the front end side of the project developing the HTML Template to collect the input from the user, putting it into the MBTA helper, utilizing flask to output the result back to the user in a different page. Michael worked on the back end side of the project and worked with API integrations to build urls that would generate the correct output. He used this output in the python functions he created that deliver the wanted outcome. This teamwork worked quite well because both Michael and Roger were competent at writing code; however, we could really improve on our communication. In an instance where Roger was having a problem with an MBTA helper, instead of asking Michael, who wrote the code, he spent an hour debugging. After calling Michael for 30 seconds, the question was solved. 
